README.md, before:

# Producer-Consumer
This directory contains:
~~~
* Scripts  provided by Dr. Freudenthal, including ExtractFrames,
DisplayFrames, ConvertToGrayscale, and ExtractAndDisplay.
* producerConsumer.py, a program that concurrently extracts, converts, and
displays frames.
~~~

## How It Works
~~~
* Start the GUI with the startx command.
* Open the console.
* Run ./producerConsumer.py from the console.
~~~

## Attributions
This assignment was prepared in a manner consistent with the instructor's
requirements. All significant collaboration or guidance is clearly
documented. For full attributions, see COLLABORATIONS.md.

---

# Original Instructions

# Producer Consumer Lab

For this lab you will implement a trivial producer-consumer system using
python threads where all coordination is managed by counting and binary
semaphores for a system of two producers and two consumers. The producers and
consumers will form a simple rendering pipeline using multiple threads. One
thread will read frames from a file, a second thread will take those frames
and convert them to grayscale, and the third thread will display those
frames. The threads will run concurrently.

## File List
### ExtractFrames.py
Extracts a series of frames from the video contained in 'clip.mp4' and saves 
them as jpeg images in sequentially numbered files with the pattern
'frame_xxxx.jpg'.

### ConvertToGrayscale.py
Loads a series for frams from sequentially numbered files with the pattern
'frame_xxxx.jpg', converts the grames to grayscale, and saves them as jpeg
images with the file names 'grayscale_xxxx.jpg'

### DisplayFrames.py
Loads a series of frames sequently from files with the names
'grayscale_xxxx.jpg' and displays them with a 42ms delay.

### ExtractAndDisplay.py
Loads a series of framss from a video contained in 'clip.mp4' and displays 
them with a 42ms delay

## Requirements
* Extract frames from a video file, convert them to grayscale, and display
them in sequence
* You must have three functions
  * One function to extract the frames
  * One function to convert the frames to grayscale
  * One function to display the frames at the original framerate (24fps)
* The functions must each execute within their own python thread
  * The threads will execute concurrently
  * The order threads execute in may not be the same from run to run
* Threads will need to signal that they have completed their task
* Threads must process all frames of the video exactly once
* Frames will be communicated between threads using producer/consumer idioms
  * Producer/consumer quesues will be bounded at ten frames

Note: You may have ancillary objects and method in order to make you're code easer to understand and implement.

Commit message:

Implemented semaphores (redundant?). Updated documentation. Still needs a signal so it'll stop!

README.md, after:

# Producer-Consumer Lab
This directory contains:
~~~
* Scripts  provided by Dr. Freudenthal, including ExtractFrames,
DisplayFrames, ConvertToGrayscale, and ExtractAndDisplay.
* producerConsumer.py, a program that concurrently extracts, converts, and
displays frames.
~~~

## How It Works
producerConsumer.py works using three concurrent threads: Extract, Convert,
and Display.

* Extract takes a video file and loads a series of frames. It encodes them and
loads them into a queue.
* Convert takes the frames loaded into a queue and desaturates them to grayscale
- these are placed in a second queue.
* Display takes frames from a queue and displays them with a 42ms delay.

All of these threads runs concurrently, managed by counting semaphores.

To start the program:

~~~
* Start the GUI with the startx command.
* Open the console.
* Run ./producerConsumer.py from the console.
~~~

## Attributions
This assignment was prepared in a manner consistent with the instructor's
requirements. All significant collaboration or guidance is clearly
documented. For full attributions, see COLLABORATIONS.md.

---

# Original Instructions

For this lab you will implement a trivial producer-consumer system using
python threads where all coordination is managed by counting and binary
semaphores for a system of two producers and two consumers. The producers and
consumers will form a simple rendering pipeline using multiple threads. One
thread will read frames from a file, a second thread will take those frames
and convert them to grayscale, and the third thread will display those
frames. The threads will run concurrently.

## File List
### ExtractFrames.py
Extracts a series of frames from the video contained in 'clip.mp4' and saves 
them as jpeg images in sequentially numbered files with the pattern
'frame_xxxx.jpg'.

### ConvertToGrayscale.py
Loads a series for frams from sequentially numbered files with the pattern
'frame_xxxx.jpg', converts the grames to grayscale, and saves them as jpeg
images with the file names 'grayscale_xxxx.jpg'

### DisplayFrames.py
Loads a series of frames sequently from files with the names
'grayscale_xxxx.jpg' and displays them with a 42ms delay.

### ExtractAndDisplay.py
Loads a series of framss from a video contained in 'clip.mp4' and displays 
them with a 42ms delay

## Requirements
* Extract frames from a video file, convert them to grayscale, and display
them in sequence
* You must have three functions
  * One function to extract the frames
  * One function to convert the frames to grayscale
  * One function to display the frames at the original framerate (24fps)
* The functions must each execute within their own python thread
  * The threads will execute concurrently
  * The order threads execute in may not be the same from run to run
* Threads will need to signal that they have completed their task
* Threads must process all frames of the video exactly once
* Frames will be communicated between threads using producer/consumer idioms
  * Producer/consumer quesues will be bounded at ten frames

Note: You may have ancillary objects and method in order to make you're code easer to understand and implement.
